# Libertree Philosophy

Some writings by Pistos (founder of The Libertree Project) regarding Libertree.

---

## Raison d'Ãªtre

Why bother making another social network?  What sets Libertree apart?

I created Libertree because I wanted a social network that was free from the
tentacles of commercial interests.  In building and continuing to shape this
software, I also want to foster a great community, a place where people can
find a positive, friendly atmosphere, and also feel involved in its growth,
improvement and progress.  In the Libertree community, I want people to
experience being listened to, talked with, and acknowledged when it comes to
using the software and being a part of the community.  I want to make Libertree
into what people want it to be, something that makes them happy, that makes
their lives simpler, easier, better.

## Libertree and other social networks

It is frequently asked whether Libertree can or will connect to and
interoperate with other social networks, whether the popular ones, or the
lesser-known alternatives (Diaspora, Friendica, StatusNet, and so on). Right
now, the answer is no, Libertree has no external connectivity features of this
sort.  But will that ever change?  Maybe -- if someone codes it up.  Myself, I
do not see this as important to include in the Libertree core code.  This has
to do with my vision for Libertree.

## Growing Libertree

It's not my aim to make Libertree a Facebook killer.  It's not my goal to get
tens of millions of people using Libertree as soon as possible.  If Libertree
eventually does become hugely popular, well then that would be great.  But, to
me, it would not be a failure if it didn't.

I'm building Libertree for the small scale.  The grassroots.  I want it to be
like the little town, not the big city.  The neighbourhood cafe, not the
nationwide coffee shop franchise.  The small business, not the megacorp.  It
would be neat to see Libertree spread, but in the way that there's a general
store in most neighbourhoods, not in the way that there might be a mega chain
store in every county.  The general stores serve the people very well -- the
local people.

So, in social networking terms, I don't care to see one huge Libertree tree[1]
housing every Libertree member.  Or even several big trees serving the world.
Or one, single giant forest comprised of all known trees.  I'm building
Libertree so that it's easy to install, easy to maintain, and easy for people
to use for social networking.  This way, many, many people around the world can
just plant a tree for their friends (or for the friends they've yet to meet),
and small groups of arboristas[2] can agree to network their trees into small
forests.  Then there would be many little forests around the world, each with no
obligation to connect with or even know about each other.

This is my vision for Libertree. Not to grow big, but to grow broad.

[1]: A Libertree server is called a tree.
[2]: A tree administrator is called an arborista.

## Privacy Policy

My policy in general is to have no privacy policy.  You should not trust the
contents of Privacy Policies. Companies might renege on any published policy
without detection, or without any punishment, consequence or loss to them.

It should be up to each individual arborista (admin) to come up with his/her
own policy documents (PP, ToS, EULA, etc.).

If you do not trust that your arbo has your best interests at heart (or at
least that (s)he won't do things with your data that you wouldn't want done),
then find an arbo that you do trust, or become your own arbo.

## On Novelty and Change

Sometimes when people make things, they strive to make or be something
totally new, totally different than what is already out there.  While I
understand this sentiment, I think it's also important not to take this to an
extreme.

Sometimes the existing, the commonplace, the traditional are good -- are
still good.  We would probably not say things like this, for example:

"Businesses are always trying to make money.  We should be different!"
"Athletes always practice and exercise.  I'm going to be different." "The
typical restaurant strives to serve good food.  We're going to be different."

Likewise, I'm not interested in making a radically different social network
just for the sake of being different.  There are some things that already work,
that people already use all the time, are used to, and are perfectly content
with.  If there's no reason to change something, I don't believe in changing
just to change.

"Change is good." No, improvement is good.

I'm not against innovation, creativity and novelty.  But pursuit of these
things needs to be tempered with good judgement.

## On the Importance of the Distribution Design

Having a well-designed protocol, server specification and overall network
architecture is extremely high priority for us.  It is the crux of the
software.  It really needs to be done right, or at least as well as possible.
You could almost go as far as saying that the rest is just window dressing
compared to it.  If we fail at the design of our distributed system, we may as
well pack it in.  Everything else rests on it.

## On Privacy and Security

I don't have strong inclinations to provide ultra impenetrable securiy at the
cost of exponentially more complex code.  It's not part of my goals to provide
a communications medium that can protect secrecy or data integrity sufficiently
where money, safety or life is at stake.

People that need such stringent security should turn to other technologies,
such as PGP, Tor, or non-digital means of communication.

## Designing for Meaningful Content

The design of Libertree up to this point has strongly focused on
*pseudonymous, public interaction*. "Meatspace mapping" may come later.  In the
current design, what you say is what is interesting, not so much who you are.
To me, a thought-provoking post by an average Jane is more interesting than an
"I'm eating breakfast now" post by an international movie star.  Libertree's
design gives meaningful content a platform.  There is a shift from "what are
the people I know saying" to "what interesting, valuable, meaningful things are
being said". I hope to design Libertree to help people find that life-enriching
content.
