.TH LIBERTREE 1

.SH NAME

Libertree - free, libre, open-source software intended to provide a way for
people to create their own social network

.SH SYNOPSIS

libertree [options] <command> [command options]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Libertree is free, libre, open-source software which is intended to provide a
way for people to create their own social network.  Libertree social networks
can be free from commercial influence and manifestation, such as behaviour
tracking, user profiling, advertising, data mining and analysis, and covert
information filtering.

.SH OPTIONS

-h, --help
.TP
-v, --version

.SH COMMANDS

.SS install [installation directory]

Checks the system for requirements and dependencies, such as git and
PostgreSQL. Also checks for the presence of recommended software, such as
memcached.  Offers to attempt to install anything that is not found, using sudo
if necessary.  Outputs the target directories where things will be downloaded
and installed.  The default installation location is libertree/ under the
current directory, but a different directory may be specified as an argument to
the install command.

If all requirements are met, proceeds to download and install all components
of Libertree into the target directory.  root access is not required.  Also
recommends that each configuration file be edited.

.SS update

Downloads updates for all Libertree components.  Updates gems (with Bundler).
Runs database migrations.  Compiles SCSS. Notifies about any changes to
configurations.  Recommends that components be restarted.

.SS start [frontend|backend|frontend-jobs|backend-jobs|websockets|exporter]

Attempts to start the specified Libertree server.  If no server specified,
attempts to start all servers which do not appear to be already running.
Reports on any failures to start.

.SS stop [frontend|backend|frontend-jobs|backend-jobs|websockets|exporter]

Stops the specified Libertree server, or all servers if no server specified.

.SS restart [frontend|backend|frontend-jobs|backend-jobs|websockets|exporter]

Attemps to restart the specified Libertree server, or all servers if no server
is specified.  Reports on any failures to start.

.SS status

Outputs the run state of all Libertree servers, and some information about
the job queues.

.SH SERVERS

The Libertree software is comprised of several servers (i.e. processes,
daemons). These are controlled with the `libertree` manager script (see
COMMANDS, above).

.SS frontend

The frontend server serves HTML, CSS and Javascript to web browsers.

.SS backend

The backend server acts as the contact point for other (remote) Libertree
servers to connect to.

.SS frontend-jobs, backend-jobs

The job processing servers process various long-running tasks that the frontend
or backend servers queue up.  Many of these jobs are for entity distribution.

.SS websockets

The websocket server handles websocket connections from browsers.  Websocket
connections are used to transmit things like notifications from the frontend to
browsers.

.SS exporter

Members can opt to have their data exported and emailed to them regularly (e.g.
weekly). This server sends those emails.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.SS LIBERTREE_ENV

The Libertree environment to run under.  One of: production, test, development .
This affects which database is used.

.SH EXAMPLES

Lorem ipsum

.SH SOURCE CODE

https://github.com/Libertree

.SH AUTHORS

Libertree is written by Pistos and rekado, with some contributions from others.
See the git repositories for names of other contributors.  Visit them at
irc.freenode.net #libertree .

.SH REPORTING BUGS

Please report issues on Libertree itself, in The First Forest. Use hashtags,
including #bug or #bugs.

